CIS*4800 - Assignment 4 - File Formats and Shadows
--------------------------------------------------
Due: Friday, March 20

Read a 3D object in from a file and create a fake shadow for the object.

The q key should exit your program.

Part I - Load an Object from a File
-----------------------------------
Read an 3D object model from an input file. The file is in the PLY
format. Build the model from the description in the file and display
it using OpenGL. Put a light above and to the side of the model.

The PLY files are ASCII. Write the code to read the file and
store the polygon information.

Pick a neutral colour for the object. Calculate surface normals
for each polygon. Make sure the object fits in the display window.

Sample PLY files are available on the Courselink page.

Read the name of the file from the command line:
	./a4 file.ply

PLY models are from https://people.sc.fsu.edu/~jburkardt/data/ply/ply.html.


Part II - Moving Object
-----------------------
Make the object rotate around the y axis.  Have the object at a speed
that it is easy to see. It should be possible to see the surfaces of
the object become lighter when the light is facing them. Choose lighting
parameters that do not make the scene too bright or too dark to see clearly.


Part III - Fake Shadows
-----------------------
Create a shadow for the cube using Jim Blinn Fake Shadows. Make the shadow
a solid dark gray colour.  The shadow should rotate beneath the object
as it  moves.

Make sure the shadow is easily visible. Don't draw a dark shadow
on a black background.

You can choose to create local or infinite shadows.

The initial position of the shadow may not be correct using the standard
transformation matrix. You may need to change the orientation of the shadow
for it to appear correct.


Handin Notes
------------
Submit the assignment using the dropbox for assignment 4 in Courselink.

Include a readme.txt which contains your student number, and a short
description of any parts of the program which do not function correctly.

Your code must run on the Macs in Thorn. 2420.

Submit your source files necessary to compile your code, a makefile that
will compile the code, and any other file necessary to build the project.
The assignment will be compiled following these steps by:
        -unpacking your submission
        -typing make
 	-run a4 from the command line (./a4 <file.ply>)
Any executables in the directory will be removed before make is run.



